README.md, before:

# ProbabilisticParcellation
Cerebellar Probabilistic Parcellation project using HierarchBayesParcel and FunctionalFusion

## Dependencies:
Diedrichsenlab/HierarchicalBayesParcel
Diedrichsenlab/FunctionalFusion
Diedrichsenlab/DCBC
Diedrichsenlab/cortico_cereb_connectivity

Other dependencies:

see ```requirements.txt```

## Notebooks / Code to replicate different sections of the paper

### Estimation of the atlas
Atlas was estimated using:
```scripts/atlas_paper/fit_atlas.py```

Single dataset parcellations (Fig 1a)
```single_parcellations.ipynb```

Symmetric & asymmetric atlas (Fig 2a, 2b & 2c)
```atlas_flatmaps.ipynb```

### State dependency of functional atlases
Plotting MDS plots for different single dataset parcellations (Fig 1B & 1C & 1D) & Statistics for between-dataset ARI (similarity; normalized to within-dataset ARI) between all datasets and the task-general (MDTB) and rest-based (HCP) data:
```notebooks/evaluate_mds.ipynb```

### Fusion outperforms other atlases

Plotting DCBC & Statistics DCBC (Fig 1E & 1F):
```notebooks/evaluate_dcbc.ipynb```

Comparison of existing atlasses to fusion
```notebooks/evaluate_existing.ipynb```

### Symmetric and Asymmetric atlasses
Plotting symmetry (boundary and functional symmetry, i.e. functional lateralization) and comparing asymmetric and symmetric atlas versions:
```notebooks/symmetry.ipynb```


### Fine level of granularity advantageous for individual parcellation
Statistics on DCBC of 68 regions vs 40 regions in individual DCBC  (Fig 1F):
```notebooks/evaluate_dcbc.ipynb```


### Hierarchical atlas organisation
Dendrogram (Fig 2D):
```scripts/atlas_paper/dendrogram.py```
Some manual adjustments had to be made on the produced figure, because the internal ordering of the leaves within a domain is randomly generated by the dendrogram plotting algorithm (for example M4a and M4b are ordered M4b, M4a).

The parcels are reordered according to their functional profiles using the ```reorder_model``` function in ```hierarchical_clustering```. Clustering of the 68 subregions into 32 regions (medium) and 4 domains (coarse) is then performed on the reordered model using the function ```cluster_parcel``` in ```hierarchical_clustering.py```. Both functions are called by the function ```reorder_models``` in ```scripts/atlas_paper/parcel_hierarchy.py```. 
The order of regions went through several rounds of revisions, with all rounds documented in the ```reorder_models``` function.

### Characterization of regions
Characterizing regions based on functional responses in the MDTB dataset over and above motor responses is done by estimating a linear model using ridge regression (L2 regularization) with the motor features (left hand presses, right hand presses & saccades) and task condition indicators as the design matrix. The feature model is run using:
```scripts/atlas_paper/feature_model.py```
which calls the ```ridgeFit``` function in:
```scripts/atlas_paper/ridge_reg.py```

The motor, action, demand and social-linguistic-spatial regions are described in individual notebooks using all datasets and the MDTB feature model:

Motor regions
```notebooks/atlas_paper/motor.ipynb``` (Fig S1)

Action regions
```notebooks/atlas_paper/action.ipynb```

Demand regions
```notebooks/atlas_paper/demand.ipynb```

Sociolinguistic regions
```notebooks/atlas_paper/social.ipynb```

Probabilistic maps:
function ```export_all_probmaps``` in ```export_atlas.py``` (Fig S2a)

Region sizes:
```notebooks/atlas_paper/size_comparison.ipynb``` (Fig S2b & S2)

Volumetric atlas view:
```notebooks/atlas_paper/atlas_volume.ipynb``` (Fig S3)

Localizing individual regions
```notebooks/atlas_paper/task_differences.ipynb``` (Fig S4)

### Cortical Connectivity

Cortical connectivity models are estimated and evaluated in the repository
```diedrichsenlab/cortico_cereb_connectivity``` denoted ```ccc``` for short.

Models were trained evaluated ```ccc.run_model```, which is called from ```ccc.scripts.script_train_eval_models.py```

Models are then fused (i.e. simply averaged) using ```ccc.scripts.script_fuse_models.py```

* Model 4: Demand, HCP and MDTB 
* Model 5: all datasets including HCP
* Model 6: all datasets excluding HCP
* Model 7: all datasets excluding HCP and Somatotopic

The final model evaluation results reported in the paper can be found in ```ccc.notebooks.Evaluate_model_int.ipynb```.

To summarize the connectivity pattern by cerebellar regions:

```
import cortico_cereb_connectivity.scripts.script_summarize_weights as csw
csw.make_weight_map('Fusion','06',method='L2Regression')
```

To summarize further by cortical ROI:
```T = csw.make_weight_table(dataset="Fusion",extension="06",cortical_roi="")```

Summary figures (by MSHBM_Prior_15_fsLR32)
```notebooks/atlas_paper/cortical_connectivity.ipynb```


Full connectivity maps:
```notebooks/atlas_paper/connectivity_weights.ipynb``` (Fig S5 & Fig S6)

### Function and boundary (a)symmetry

Size comparison of left and right regions (voxel-wise) of the asymmetric atlas (Fig S8)
```notebooks/atlas_paper/size_comparison.ipynb```

XX

XX add the figure names to plots in jupyter notebook

### Individual localization

To get individual parcellations (previously saved as pytorch tensor to save
time) run the following script:
```scripts.individual_variability.export_uhats(model_name)```

Which Calls:
```evaluate.get_individual_parcellation(model_name)```

Plotting the individual parcellations: (Fig 5A):
```notebooks/individual_parcellation.ipynb```

Calculating and plotting individual variability (Fig 5B):
```notebooks/individual_variability.ipynb``` 

which calls:
```scripts.individual_variability.calc_variability(Data, Info, subject_wise=False):```

Plotting probability maps for parcels (Fig 5C):
```notebooks/individual_group.ipynb```
```plot.plot_parcel_prob```

Comparing group and individual parcellations with varying length of data (Fig 5D & 5E):
```notebooks/individual_group.ipynb```

### Model to atlas
```export_atlas.export_map``` takes a marginal probabilitiy of a arrangement model and generates the probseg and dseg to save in the ProbabilisticParcellationModel/Atlases directory.


### Final export / Production of the atlas
The final step is to take the 2mm atlas in MNISymC2 space and resample it to 1mm isotropic in SUIT, MNIAsym and MNISym spaces defined in the `FunctionalFusion/Atlases` directory. The reslicing is done on the `probseg.nii` files and then a new `dseg.nii` file is computed.

```scripts.export_atlas_script.py```

which calls

```
export_atlas.resample_atlas('NettekovenSym32','MNISymC2','MNI152NLin2009cSymC')
```

The files are then copied for inclusion into the `cerebellar_atlases` repository by hand. 

### Spatial subdivision of the atlas
The spatial subdivision of the atlas is then produced in each atlas space seperately - in the final 1mm space.

```subdivde_atlas_spatial(fname='NettekovenSym32',atlas='SUIT',outname='NettekovenSym128')```

Commit message:

Added entropy and MDTB comparison

README.md, after:

# ProbabilisticParcellation
Cerebellar Probabilistic Parcellation project using HierarchBayesParcel and FunctionalFusion

## Dependencies:
Diedrichsenlab/HierarchicalBayesParcel
Diedrichsenlab/FunctionalFusion
Diedrichsenlab/DCBC
Diedrichsenlab/cortico_cereb_connectivity

Other dependencies:

see ```requirements.txt```

## Notebooks / Code to replicate different sections of the paper

### Estimation of the atlas
Atlas was estimated using:
```scripts/atlas_paper/fit_atlas.py```

Single dataset parcellations (Fig 1a)
```single_parcellations.ipynb```

Symmetric & asymmetric atlas (Fig 2a, 2b & 2c)
```atlas_flatmaps.ipynb```

### State dependency of functional atlases
Plotting MDS plots for different single dataset parcellations (Fig 1B & 1C & 1D) & Statistics for between-dataset ARI (similarity; normalized to within-dataset ARI) between all datasets and the task-general (MDTB) and rest-based (HCP) data:
```notebooks/evaluate_mds.ipynb```

### Fusion outperforms other atlases

Plotting DCBC & Statistics DCBC (Fig 1E & 1F):
```notebooks/evaluate_dcbc.ipynb```

Comparison of existing atlasses to fusion
```notebooks/evaluate_existing.ipynb```

### Symmetric and Asymmetric atlasses
Plotting symmetry (boundary and functional symmetry, i.e. functional lateralization) and comparing asymmetric and symmetric atlas versions:
```notebooks/symmetry.ipynb```


### Fine level of granularity advantageous for individual parcellation
Statistics on DCBC of 68 regions vs 40 regions in individual DCBC  (Fig 1F):
```notebooks/evaluate_dcbc.ipynb```


### Hierarchical atlas organisation
Dendrogram (Fig 2D):
```scripts/atlas_paper/dendrogram.py```
Some manual adjustments had to be made on the produced figure, because the internal ordering of the leaves within a domain is randomly generated by the dendrogram plotting algorithm (for example M4a and M4b are ordered M4b, M4a).

The parcels are reordered according to their functional profiles using the ```reorder_model``` function in ```hierarchical_clustering```. Clustering of the 68 subregions into 32 regions (medium) and 4 domains (coarse) is then performed on the reordered model using the function ```cluster_parcel``` in ```hierarchical_clustering.py```. Both functions are called by the function ```reorder_models``` in ```scripts/atlas_paper/parcel_hierarchy.py```. 
The order of regions went through several rounds of revisions, with all rounds documented in the ```reorder_models``` function.

### Characterization of regions
Characterizing regions based on functional responses in the MDTB dataset over and above motor responses is done by estimating a linear model using ridge regression (L2 regularization) with the motor features (left hand presses, right hand presses & saccades) and task condition indicators as the design matrix. The feature model is run using:
```scripts/atlas_paper/feature_model.py```
which calls the ```ridgeFit``` function in:
```scripts/atlas_paper/ridge_reg.py```

The motor, action, demand and social-linguistic-spatial regions are described in individual notebooks using all datasets and the MDTB feature model:

Motor regions
```notebooks/atlas_paper/motor.ipynb``` (Fig S1)

Action regions
```notebooks/atlas_paper/action.ipynb```

Demand regions
```notebooks/atlas_paper/demand.ipynb```

Sociolinguistic regions
```notebooks/atlas_paper/social.ipynb```

Probabilistic maps:
function ```export_all_probmaps``` in ```export_atlas.py``` (Fig S2a)

Region sizes:
```notebooks/atlas_paper/size_comparison.ipynb``` (Fig S2b & S2)

Volumetric atlas view:
```notebooks/atlas_paper/atlas_volume.ipynb``` (Fig S3)

Localizing individual regions
```notebooks/atlas_paper/task_differences.ipynb``` (Fig S4)

### Cortical Connectivity

Cortical connectivity models are estimated and evaluated in the repository
```diedrichsenlab/cortico_cereb_connectivity``` denoted ```ccc``` for short.

Models were trained evaluated ```ccc.run_model```, which is called from ```ccc.scripts.script_train_eval_models.py```

Models are then fused (i.e. simply averaged) using ```ccc.scripts.script_fuse_models.py```

* Model 4: Demand, HCP and MDTB 
* Model 5: all datasets including HCP
* Model 6: all datasets excluding HCP
* Model 7: all datasets excluding HCP and Somatotopic

The final model evaluation results reported in the paper can be found in ```ccc.notebooks.Evaluate_model_int.ipynb```.

To summarize the connectivity pattern by cerebellar regions:

```
import cortico_cereb_connectivity.scripts.script_summarize_weights as csw
csw.make_weight_map('Fusion','06',method='L2Regression')
```

To summarize further by cortical ROI:
```T = csw.make_weight_table(dataset="Fusion",extension="06",cortical_roi="")```

Summary figures (by MSHBM_Prior_15_fsLR32)
```notebooks/atlas_paper/cortical_connectivity.ipynb```


Full connectivity maps:
```notebooks/atlas_paper/connectivity_weights.ipynb``` (Fig S5 & Fig S6)

### Function and boundary (a)symmetry

Size comparison of left and right regions (voxel-wise) of the asymmetric atlas (Fig S8)
```notebooks/atlas_paper/size_comparison.ipynb```

### Individual localization

To get individual parcellations (previously saved as pytorch tensor to save
time) run the following script:
```scripts.individual_variability.export_uhats(model_name)```

Which Calls:
```evaluate.get_individual_parcellation(model_name)```

Plotting the individual parcellations: (Fig 5A):
```notebooks/individual_parcellation.ipynb```

Calculating and plotting individual variability (Fig 5B):
```notebooks/individual_variability.ipynb``` 

which calls:
```scripts.individual_variability.calc_variability(Data, Info, subject_wise=False):```

Plotting probability maps for parcels (Fig 5C):
```notebooks/individual_group.ipynb```
```plot.plot_parcel_prob```

Comparing group and individual parcellations with varying length of data (Fig 5D & 5E):
```notebooks/individual_group.ipynb```

### Model to atlas
```export_atlas.export_map``` takes a marginal probabilitiy of a arrangement model and generates the probseg and dseg to save in the ProbabilisticParcellationModel/Atlases directory.


### Final export / Production of the atlas
The final step is to take the 2mm atlas in MNISymC2 space and resample it to 1mm isotropic in SUIT, MNIAsym and MNISym spaces defined in the `FunctionalFusion/Atlases` directory. The reslicing is done on the `probseg.nii` files and then a new `dseg.nii` file is computed.

```scripts.export_atlas_script.py```

which calls

```
export_atlas.resample_atlas('NettekovenSym32','MNISymC2','MNI152NLin2009cSymC')
```

The files are then copied for inclusion into the `cerebellar_atlases` repository by hand. 

### Spatial subdivision of the atlas
The spatial subdivision of the atlas is then produced in each atlas space seperately - in the final 1mm space.

```subdivde_atlas_spatial(fname='NettekovenSym32',atlas='SUIT',outname='NettekovenSym128')```

### Comparison with existing MDTB parcellation
The comparison with the existing MDTB parcellation can be found in (Figure 1 in response to comment 1 from reviewer 1):
```notebooks/mdtb_comparison.ipynb``` 

### Entropy
The entropy calculation for each dataset can be found in (Figure 2 in response to comment 2 from reviewer 1):
```notebooks/mdtb_comparison.ipynb```
